[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: On
"Beyond Belief," we
are talking about
controlling the human mind.
>> He knows mind control is
no longer the stuff of science
fiction.
Well-known author, lecturer,
and researcher Dr. Nick Begich
says the secretly
developed technology now
exists to either
enslave our minds
or free us to our
higher potential.
And since this technology will
impact consciousness itself,
he believes we must
debate it openly.
Although most
people tend to focus
on the military application
of mind control,
Nick examines the private-sector
implications-- today
on "Beyond Belief."
>> NOORY: Nick Begich,
welcome to the program.
So great to see you.
>>NICK BEGICH: Hey, it's so
good to be with you again.
It's been a while since
we've done one of these.
>> NOORY: Well, and the
last time we talked,
it was about HAARP and what's
going on up there in Alaska
and everything else.
Has anything changed with that?
>>BEGICH: The project
continues to go on.
Every couple of years
they say it shuts down.
But what they really do is
transfer the funding source.
So it's still being operated.
It's actually now under the
control of the University
of Alaska in Fairbanks.
And then it's doing projects
for DARPA and many, many--
>> NOORY: Whatever it's doing.
>>BEGICH: Same customers,
just a different owner
at the present time.
>> NOORY: And now you've
moved into the area that is
fascinating-- controlling
the human mind.
>>BEGICH: Right.
And for me, this is, I think,
one of most important areas.
And it's kind of the spin-off
from my work on the HAARP
project.
But this, the idea
of manipulating
human behavior, the
sinister side of it,
is what everybody
always focuses on.
And certainly I've dealt with
that a lot over the years.
But there's an upside
to this, the idea
of stimulating the mind,
stimulating consciousness
in a way that enhances
our potentials,
what I think is
the most exciting.
>> NOORY: It sort
of goes both ways.
>>BEGICH: Absolutely
goes both ways.
>> NOORY: Now, and when you
talk about controlling the human
mind, are we talking
about technology doing it?
Are we talking about just
doing it in terms of episodes
where you bombard people with
information and they change?
What's the concept here?
>>BEGICH: There's
a number of ways.
You're talking about
kind of the spectrum,
from the propaganda
kind of approaches
of the past to
more sophisticated
electronic approaches, where you
literally manipulate the brain,
you manipulate the
behavior of people.
And what has been
discovered is that there
is what's called a frequency
following response, where
an external signal,
whether it be, say,
a radio signal or a
pulse-modulator radio
signal flickering light
at a certain flicker rate.
Sound waves interacting
in a certain way
can drive the brain,
force the brain
into following that pattern,
frequency following response.
And so what happens is
those responses that
are associated with particular
emotions-- anger, calmness
or peacefulness--
you can manipulate
the overall sort
of brain activity
to push a person this way.
And you can use any
electromagnetic carrier
to achieve that end.
And that's just on
the emotional side.
As you get a higher resolution,
an ability to kind of
tune that more finely.
And there's a couple of
projects that I can mention
that are dealing with that.
There's some DARPA programs
now to look at the brain
to determine what a person
is actually thinking
and then create complex
signals, to take those patterns
and impose them on another
to see if you can literally
transfer thought from
one person to another.
This is ongoing experimentation
of our government,
and it's kind of
mirroring what probably we
can do naturally in any case.
>> NOORY: Nick, advertising has
really captured exactly what
you're talking about
in a scientific way.
They know exactly what
to put in a commercial,
how to stimulate somebody.
They know they know what
buttons to push, don't they?
>>BEGICH: Yeah, and they do it.
Because it's no regulation.
And so anyone who
studies psychology
in any of the major
institutes in the world
now understand frequency
following response.
So when you apply
to advertising,
within 20, 30 seconds
you can create just
on a light effect,
just a flicker effect,
you can create an entrainment.
And so when you think
about-- think about people
in front of a TV set.
When your spouse
is cooking dinner
and they're hollering
at you, dinner is ready,
dinner is ready, and you're
in a very light trance state,
actually.
You're in a low
alpha, high theta
rate, which is where you're
highly suggestive, where you
can take in information
that sort of lines
up with what you think anyway,
and you just kind of move right
on.
So the 6 o'clock news becomes
an incredibly powerful tool
in terms of propaganda.
Advertising as such
becomes a tool.
>> NOORY: Huge.
>>BEGICH: And so when
you start to think
about just simple
manipulation like this
can move just enough
of a population
to maybe decide presidential
elections, as an example.
You've got these close,
close things that
happen in political arenas,
and just a little bit
of a push one way or the
other is really all it takes.
>> NOORY: Do both
sides understand that,
I mean oppositions
in this stuff?
Because I know if I
were running a campaign
and I were the
candidate, I would
use everything
technologically I could
to manipulate the mind, to get
people to want to vote for you.
>>BEGICH: If the candidates
don't do it directly,
the consultants probably do.
And the reason I say
that is because you've
got a lot at stake.
People are spending millions on
ads, billions now on campaigns.
And so the amount of money
it takes to just layer
that up a little bit
is not that much.
And the idea of giving
people that kind
of happy, good
feeling when they're
seeing the ad, that's what you
want them to walk away with.
>> NOORY: Music is tied
into it, everything.
>>BEGICH: Right.
And now when you start
to think about taking it
from the old propaganda
and combining the tools,
like when you think about
internet, as an example--
internet is a way
to profile people
like we've never done before.
When you consider all the
things that are electronically
tracked and kept track of, and
these end up in data warehouse.
People say, oh,
it's not a problem.
We can't even sort that data.
Maybe not today, but we will
be able to sort that data.
And that's the point.
Storing it is valuable
inventory for the future.
As our resolution ability
to sort that data changes,
you're going to be able to
profile people so perfectly
and be able to tailor
ads directly for them.
I wrote about this 16
years ago in a book
called "Earth Rise
and Revolution,"
that this was coming.
Where they're going
to tailor ads--
>> NOORY: You were spot on.
>>BEGICH: And here we are.
And when you look at it, whether
it's on your smartphone or any
of your devices, the idea of
knowing that's you, number one,
identifying you as a
person, and then tying
the data that tells them sort
of where your frame of reference
is so they-- like in
a political campaign.
There's 99 issues.
One them you agree with.
That's the only one you're
going to hear in the future.
>> NOORY: I was watching some
advertisers look at a project
they were working
on technologically.
And they were doing research,
and it was just amazing.
They were showing
a car commercial
with an attractive woman
walking by the car,
kind of like touching the
sides of it and stuff.
And then they
researched guys who
were the buyers of
these kind of cars,
and none of them--
none of them--
knew what the car looked like.
They remembered the
name of the car,
and they remember the girl.
But they don't remember
the car at all, other
than it was a car
with this brand name.
And they said this was
a very successful test.
And that's what they
ran with for that ad.
>>BEGICH: Right.
Now, even more
sophisticated testing
would be to hook the
viewers up to EEGs
and look at what's going
on within the brain
as they're watching
the ad in real time.
Now, they do this
with gaming now,
because the idea is they want
the game, through the light
and sound effects, to stimulate
the same portions of the brain
that are associated with
addictive behaviors,
sexual activity, the kinds of
things that highly stimulate
the brain, release endorphins
and brain chemicals that just
excite the heck
out of the person.
And what you see is that kind of
addictive behavior manifesting
in gaming.
Because it's
designed to do that.
That is what it's
supposed to do,
because they want to sell
millions of these units.
And the way they do them
is exactly this way.
So whether it's the advertising
or the device itself
that you're interacting
with-- virtual reality
is another place where
this will be applied.
And I mean, when you start to
think about just the direction
in which all of these
things are going,
the idea of manipulating
what's going
on within a brain for
nefarious purposes,
everyone can see that.
And everybody goes, ah,
what do we do about that?
But if you flip it
around-- and this
is where my research led me that
that was the most surprising,
is that when you flip this
around, what you find out
is that what they
really discovered
was the potential of human
beings, that we have what
they call now anomalous
human capabilities,
or human potential.
Shows up in the military
literature all over the place,
what we used to call Extra
Sensory Perceptions, ESP.
But that has kind of a bad
connotation because the '70s
and '60s kind of wrapped
it up with the occult
and all kinds of stuff.
But the scientific literature
in this area continues to grow.
And through my own experience
and from interacting
with people that have
had these experiences
and talking to experts,
PhD-level biophysicists,
they believe that this is the
next evolution of humankind,
that we're going to
achieve these capabilities.
And you know the one
thing that blocks
higher states of
consciousness-- the one thing?
>> NOORY: What's that?
>>BEGICH: Fear and anxiety.
You cannot reach higher states
of consciousness in a state
of fear and anxiety.
Take a look at the media
and what it sends us.
>> NOORY: Oh, yeah.
>>BEGICH: That's it.
That's the message.
>> NOORY: Or government--
terrorism this, that,
keeping you on edge.
You remember in the beginning
of 9/11, that horrible tragedy,
we went to a color scheme.
I hated that, Nick.
I thought that was the grossest
presentation of mind control
by talking about various
stages of colors.
They were manipulating
the mind, weren't they?
>>BEGICH: Right.
They were indeed.
And in fact, they were
doing a couple of things.
First, by creating
that level of anxiety,
you shut off the highly
intellectual parts
of the brain, the parts
that aren't related
to the flight-or-flight
response,
but the ones that
actually analyze a problem
and begin to come
up with solutions.
But when you infect a
population with fear
and then expect them
to make good decisions,
you bet wrong every time.
Think about 9/11, as
you were mentioning.
Right afterwards, 99
people in the US Senate
passed the Patriot Act, which
wasn't patriotic at all.
In fact, how many legislatures
and governments said,
hey, this is totally wrong.
But 99 senators in a panic
passed that legislation.
So fear and anxiety are not
the place we want to be.
In fact, that is the
absolute adversary
for higher states
of consciousness.
The kinds of things we're
seeing in the country today
are not the kinds of things
that build solutions.
They're the kinds of things
that exacerbate problems.
We need a calm sense
of our self so we
can start to analyze
how we see the world
and how we want to
participate in it.
Because the fact
of the matter is,
we can see significant change.
What you saw in this
last cycle of elections
was anger manifest.
And whether it was from
the right or from the left,
people were angry and
mad because of what
has happened over the last 50--
>> NOORY: And
they're still angry.
>>BEGICH: Yeah, and they
still are, because we still
don't have solutions.
>> NOORY: In my earlier
days in television news
as an executive, Nick, we would
use what was called a galvanic
skin testing, where we would
research anchorpeople we wanted
to hire.
And we'd hook up the people.
And if their skin pulsed and
sweated and stuff like that,
this machine would read
that, and we'd say-- even
with our own gut
instincts, we would
know if they were good or bad,
but this would back it up.
Look at that.
That person is creating
some kind of energy flow
to the viewer.
And we'd hire people or not
hire people based on that.
It was amazing.
>>BEGICH: Well, and when you
think about energy coming off
the body, most of us can sense
heat energy, but some of us
can sense a little
bit more than that.
And when you think about
energy emanating from the body,
most people think
about different systems
within the body.
Think about the nervous system
as an energy transfer system.
And then you have the overlay.
Now, acupuncture has gotten
a lot more credibility
in the last couple of
decades than it used to have.
Because people
didn't understand it.
Because it didn't line
up with the muscle
system or the circulatory
system or the nervous system.
There's a fourth system.
And you can actually measure it.
In fact, this little
device does that.
>> NOORY: You want to
hook me up on that?
>>BEGICH: Yeah.
It's really simple.
>> NOORY: And
explain what it is.
>>BEGICH: What this is, is
this is measuring the skin
resistance, so it's similar
to what you were using with
a galvanic--
>> NOORY: The galvanic test.
>>BEGICH: Yeah.
>> NOORY: OK.
>>BEGICH: And what this does
is-- each acupuncture point
on the body has a different
electrical characteristic.
So what this does is this
is kind of the ground
to complete a circuit.
So the power goes through you.
It's not generating much.
I can just demonstrate
it on myself.
I'm holding the
ground, and there's
an acupuncture point
located right here
and another one here.
And so if I move
this over the skin--
[BUZZING]
>> NOORY: Jeez.
>>BEGICH: See, you'll hear it.
>> NOORY: What is
that telling you?
>>BEGICH: That's telling
me that I got the point.
And so now if I
were a practitioner,
I could actually hit that point
with a great deal of accuracy.
Now, there's other devices--
>> NOORY: Put it on
another spot of your body.
[LOWER-PITCHED BUZZING]
Different sound.
Nothing now, right?
>>BEGICH: No.
And I can turn it down so
it's a little less sensitive.
So only when it hits
the points will it go.
Let me just adjust it.
>> NOORY: Turn it
up a little bit.
>>BEGICH: Yeah,
everybody's skin resistance
is a little different.
[BUZZING]
>> NOORY: Yeah.
Let me try that.
Try that on me.
I just hold this?
>>BEGICH: Just hold
that for a ground.
>> NOORY: All right.
>>BEGICH: And then let
me have the other hand.
And then this has-- acupuncture
point is located here.
[BUZZING]
That time you hit it.
And so it's used for locating.
Now, there's other devices
that do a locating activity.
But what they also do is you
can then depress a signal,
and now it will send
electrical current
into that acupuncture point,
having the same effect
as needling.
But the difference
is with needling
you have to be right on.
You can't be out.
With an electromagnetic field,
you've got about a centimeter--
>> NOORY: You can
be just in a range--
you've got a range there.
>>BEGICH: You've got a range.
Because your magnetic field is
still going to hit that point.
The current is still
going hit that point.
So you stimulate it every time.
Now, a good friend of
mine, one of my mentors--
he was an electrophysiologist
in Finland--
developed a system using
lasers, a class four laser,
doesn't burn you, but it's
a very powerful laser.
And around it is an electrode.
And they work in harmony
through harmonics
to create a really powerful
electromagnetic effect.
And so you can run it in,
say, through a general point
on the top of the head, where
it's hitting every major point.
And the places where
you have dysfunction,
the primary points
will light up red.
So like I had at one
time had pneumonia.
So I have one lung
that's got scar tissue.
So you looked at the
primary lung points,
and you could see this red
dot about the size of a dime
appear on one side, very bright.
>> NOORY: Clearly shows up.
>>BEGICH: And shows up.
And he's not anywhere near it.
And it's the way the energy
roll through, hits resistance,
and then you get feedback.
And the idea with
acupuncture is just
to get the energy
flow to work properly.
And when you think about the
body interacting with energy,
think about it like a radio.
You tune through the
stations, and when
you get resonance, harmony
between the transmitter
and receiver--
>> NOORY: Or find my show.
>>BEGICH: Right.
And then you get the right show,
you get the right frequency.
The same is true
with every element
that composes the human body.
Every element, every
atom, every molecule,
every configuration of a
cell, every body component,
and the body itself all
have resonant frequencies
that are unique to them.
So, for instance,
with RF you can
affect the heart, the liver,
the lungs, the kidneys,
turn them on, turn them off,
cause them to malfunction.
>> NOORY: Positive or negative.
>>BEGICH: Or negative-- right.
And, in fact, it
was the Air Force
that did work at the
University of Utah on this
to analyze radio
frequency, as an example.
But as we've
jumped-- and now it's
been, what, 22 years I've
been writing on these topics,
and as you look at
these last two decades,
and what we were talking
about 22 years ago,
mainstream is talking about now
in terms of these technologies
as they move forward.
And you see little
bits in the news
every once in a
while, breakthroughs,
like one of the things that
they're talking about now
is post-traumatic
stress syndrome
and the idea of wiping out
the memories associated
with that stress.
Now, see, whenever I talk
about that, I get chills.
>> NOORY: You get
chills on that.
>>BEGICH: Because fundamentally
stop and think about-- now,
we have people out there
doing the work of our country
that we've determined
to have done.
And whether we agree with
it or not, these people, men
and women--
>> NOORY: Putting their
lives on the line.
>>BEGICH: These are
our sons and daughters.
These are our
brothers and sisters.
These are people we care about.
And so they go into combat.
They experience these things.
And maybe they do some things
that they shouldn't have done.
Should we wipe memory out?
Is that the real solution?
And what memories do
we decide to wipe out?
>> NOORY: I was going to
say, once you decide to start
controlling, who's going to
stop somebody from controlling
everything?
>>BEGICH: Or you
get to the point
where you go, well, those
aren't good memories.
Those aren't the
politically correct things
we want you to be
thinking about.
>> NOORY: Let's erase them.
>>BEGICH: Yeah.
When do we get to that point in
our society and in our culture?
And are we headed that way?
Are people more willing to give
up their personal sovereignty
in exchange for some
collective good?
This is where I think
where some of the anger,
too, comes in terms of how
our population looks at it.
Because we feel so manipulated.
I mean, you feel
manipulated every time
you turn on the television set.
Why is the media in
such bad rapport?
Because people don't
trust it anymore.
And there's a variety.
You can get any
information you want now.
You can go to the internet,
find anything you want.
You got the
worldwide mind, which
is really the next evolution.
Because if you read
the literature-- even
PBS is talking about this.
They have a special they
ran a number of years
ago called "The Worldwide
Mind," where they believe
the next evolution
of the internet
is where our minds
are all connected.
>> NOORY: They're all connected.
That's dangerous.
>>BEGICH: That's dangerous--
if it's done artificially,
because--
>> NOORY: Because what
if you sent a virus out?
>>BEGICH: Yeah, exactly right.
And what is that in
the 21st century?
And here's the thing.
We try to duplicate what
nature already does.
We already do this.
Most of our communication
functions that way,
although we don't perceive it.
The next evolution, the next
revolution in human thinking,
will be our own
evolution as we begin--
I mean, what's the
defense mechanism
about a rogue government?
Ultimately it's to
have transparency.
Some of the people
that I've met with,
one of the best biophysicists--
couple of best biophysicists
in the world say
this is where we're
headed, that there's
going to come a time,
maybe in our lifetimes, where
we see the next evolution begin
to manifest, which is
we all start to manifest
these unique capabilities.
>> NOORY: Well, MK-Ultra was set
up right to begin the process
of learning how to
control the human mind.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This is the story of
a 30-year search by US
intelligence agencies
to perfect mind control.
Some of those engaged
in that search
have agreed to talk about
it for the first time.
One said, I think
every last one of us
felt sorry to attempt
this kind of thing.
We knew we were
crossing the line.
The search would be endless.
From brothels, an agent
says, we learned a lot
about human nature
in the bedroom,
to the mystical rites
of a magical mushroom
ceremony performed by an Indian
shaman, to a Spanish bullring.
The bull has had electrodes
implanted in the brain
and is controlled
by a scientist.
There would be victims.
>> Oh, just-- [SOBBING]
>> One intelligence agency tried
to peel this man's mind back
to reveal its deepest secrets.
>> Oh, God.
I lived through it.
>> This man worked on
some of these programs.
He would write of his work,
"It was fun, fun, fun."
[BEEPING]
This is a story of the
search for mind control.
ABC News Close-Up,
"Mission Mind Control."
>> NOORY: So, Nick, we just saw
some of the things governments
would do to control
the human mind.
>>BEGICH: Right.
In fact, when I looked
at that clip and thinking
about Delgado's work, which
is the bullfighter scene,
Delgado figured out
that you can manipulate
human beings' emotional state
using, initially, electrodes,
implants in the brain.
>> NOORY: In the brain.
>>BEGICH: But by
the mid '80s, he
figured out you didn't
need any implants at all.
All you needed to do is
an external stimulation--
>> NOORY: Just bombard you.
>>BEGICH: Yeah, with the
right pulse-modulated signal.
In fact it was Persinger at
Laurentian University that
said you could just broadcast
a signal that would create
a general sense of dis-ease, of
anxiety across the population.
>> NOORY: Or well-being.
>>BEGICH: Or well-being.
And in this, then, you could,
say, take the 6 o'clock
news example, indict a
certain group of people.
These are your
adversaries, and you've
got this sense of
anxiety anyway.
And a certain number
the population
would deflect that towards
that bit of propaganda.
So it's a way to really
heighten sort of the herd,
moving the herd, if you want
to think about it that way.
And this is why these
guys in that clip said,
oh, this is fun.
These are--
>> NOORY: Fun, fun, fun.
>>BEGICH: Fun, fun, fun.
What the heck?
And when you look at where these
guys came from, a lot of them
did-- several of this projects
were run through, of course,
Central Intelligence Agency.
But a lot of the experts they
got through organizations
like Mankind Research,
which was sort
of a front organization for a
bunch of maverick scientists
that didn't fit very well in
academia that the CIA funded
to do a bunch of pretty
odd, odd experiments.
In fact, one of the
guys that was involved,
and that was his Northwest
field director for those guys,
I got to know.
And he was heavily involved
in the occult in the '60s, was
deeply involved, but he's also
a very bright guy, a genius.
And so they brought him in.
And this guy developed protocols
for enhancing ESP potentials,
being able to be more right
on your guessing or improving
intuition.
That all became part of the
Navy SEALs program of training
to get that kind of into
intuitive-- do you turn left?
Do you turn right?
These are things that innately
we all have-- we've all
experienced in our lives.
>> NOORY: It's in our system.
>>BEGICH: Yeah, we've
experienced these things
where we've had that leap, where
you knew what the other guy was
thinking, and it wasn't just
a coincidence, or where you've
had these unusual experiences.
And I've had my own.
>> NOORY: More than hunches.
>>BEGICH: Yeah.
And I've had some that
were so profound that they
defy any other explanation
but to say that information,
that transfer is real.
Now, a good friend of mine, a
physicist Elizabeth Rauscher,
her and her late husband
Bill Bise actually
developed an
apparatus to transfer
thought from one
person to another.
>> NOORY: Can it be done?
>>BEGICH: It can be done.
And I have her
unpublished paper on this.
She got out of that work
because when they did it.
When they announced it.
A guy named Taylor.
Who was a captain
at the time, who
was involved in these projects
for military intelligence,
basically said, you pursue
any of this, all your grants
and everything ends.
And they turned her grants off.
They turned everything off.
>> NOORY: Why?
>>BEGICH: Because--
>> NOORY: What was he afraid of?
>>BEGICH: This was the most
threateningly thing of all,
because think about
electronic telepathy.
If you could transfer
artificially and perhaps
even enhance a
person's ability do you
that, you want to talk about
a transparent government,
this is the solution.
The next evolution of humankind,
that level of transparency
is going to demand something
that our country needs right
now, and that's forgiveness.
We're going to have
to forgive ourselves,
we're going have to
forgive each other,
and we're going to
have to move forward
in a very different direction.
And the opportunity
we face in the country
now in an environment
of fear and anxiety
is to recognize that
is our adversary
and our only
adversary, to eliminate
the dialogue the
country needs to have
and we all need to have.
Mind control is not
about someone else
controlling our minds.
It's about us
controlling our minds,
us ushering in
the next evolution
and the next revolution.
>> NOORY: That's
what it should be.
>>BEGICH: That's what it
has to be if this is going
to really change the world.
Otherwise, we just repeat
the same cycle again
with a different set of actors,
a different set of players,
but the same net result. Freeing
the mind to our own potential
is where the answers lie.
Each of us has that potential.
Every major revolution,
every evolution
is started with one
or two people thinking
a little differently, whether
it's in art, science, business,
politics.
The same is true today.
We need a higher caliber of
leaders that engage the mind.
They use the mind in a way
that's not for manipulation,
but to enhance our
performance so we can make
better collective judgments.
That's what changes the world.
>> NOORY: In a perfect world,
Nick, that would be great.
But they're going to abuse this.
Aren't they?
>>BEGICH: There's
a lot of abuse.
And here's what's exciting
from my perspective.
A lot of the great research
that's coming out of this
isn't in governmental labs.
There's a lot of independent
people figuring this out.
And you see more and more of it.
And the other thing
I would say is
it's not about the technology.
These are natural
attributes that we all have
that we can enhance.
And there's lots of
disciplines out there
that lead us in that direction.
And I think we're going to see
more of that as time moves on.
And it doesn't take a mob.
It only takes a few.
And that's it.
And every major thing that's
ever happened on this planet
happened with a few seeing it
just a little bit differently.
And I think that's what we need.
We need leadership that can see
it a little bit differently.
But we also need to
recognize technologies
are sort of the backdrop.
We always try to duplicate
nature with our technology.
But some of these things that
we naturally have maybe are off
limits or should be off limits.
Controlling other people's
thought processes, in my view,
should be off limits.
Owning our digital data
in terms of the internet.
No longer is your
personal life--
>> NOORY: It's not ours.
>>BEGICH: No.
>>BEGICH: You go
into your house,
and your house is your
home of privacy, right?
Everything in it is
supposed to be private.
>> NOORY: Supposed to be.
>>BEGICH: Right.
Today, your digital doorway is
your house in the 21st century.
And this generation needs
to protect that house
as much as you protected the
threshold of your doorway.
>> NOORY: God knows
what they know about us.
>>BEGICH: Exactly.
And they shouldn't.
And commercial interests
shouldn't have it, either.
And once a transaction
is complete
and the ability to dispute
the transaction is complete,
the data ought to be wiped.
And they ought not to be
able to get our permission.
>> NOORY: But it's not.
>>BEGICH: No, it's not.
>>BEGICH: And this
is, again, the change
in our technology, which
has been used to manipulate.
No one is standing up for the
little guy, which is again
where that anger comes from that
we see across the country in so
many different areas.
No one is standing
up for little guy.
They rationalize it.
Oh, we need it for
national security.
We need it for better
commercial sales.
We need it for this,
we need it for that.
What we need is the maintenance
of our personal liberty
and freedom so that
we can continue
to have a productive
dialogue and maybe get back
to a more productive dialogue,
not just in this country,
but around the world.
What we saw in the United
States is not unique.
This is happening
in every place I go.
On one level or
another, people are
angry because we've
been forgotten.
And it's time to wake
up in a different way
with a different
consciousness, not
one based on anger
and fear, but based
on thinking, based on progress,
and recognizing that today we
can even group fund
individual work.
There's people getting funding
for projects that would never
have gotten funding before.
There's lots of
opportunity for change
as much as there
is for disaster.
And whenever you see
the pendulum swinging
this far in one direction,
it's the opportunity
to swing it back the other way.
>> NOORY: Nick, let's look
at how this can be applied
to medical applications.
>> Capsule has magnets inside.
And another external magnet
can exert force on his capsule.
And inside your body,
this can be navigated.
So it can roll
inside your stomach.
It can be stopped.
It can go backward and
forward as a robot.
>> Well, how would
you put it in you?
>> So you swallow it.
So it's a pill size.
>> You swallow it?
>> So, yeah.
This is completely mindless
robot, as you see in the video.
It's made out of a soft
material so that it can deform,
and it's very safe to
use, as you mentioned.
Safety is our first
rule about the design.
And by rolling inside your
stomach's tissue surface,
the doctor can stop it.
And then by controlling
the external force,
you can indeed eject a drug.
Here you see this blue
thing is [INAUDIBLE].
>> Oh, wow.
It spilled-- it made
little pee or something.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Exactly.
And it can do this many times.
And it can actively
image your body
so that you can see
where you want exactly.
>> NOORY: What an amazing
little tiny machine.
>>BEGICH: Right.
And you're going to see them
get smaller and smaller.
And this is, again, the
nature of the technology.
And when you think about the
convergence of technology,
nanotechnologies that
take devices and make
them very small-- when
you take computing
power as an example and
the speed of computing--
and this is the big
change that's coming.
This is where all of it falls
into a whole other niche,
is when you think about
supercomputing today, we
do I think 280, 300
teraflops a second,
which is like
everybody on the planet
with a calculator for 60 hours
doing calculations in a second.
Now, the computers
that are coming
will do what a supercomputer
does in a trillion years in one
hour.
>> NOORY: In one an hour.
>>BEGICH: In one hour.
>> NOORY: Amazing.
>>BEGICH: Now, this changes
everything about everything.
Because whoever reaches
that threshold first,
encryption becomes obsolete.
Boom.
Because that amount
of computing power
can rip anything
apart as far as-- when
you think about
controlling-- whoever
gets there first-- whoever
gets there first on quantum
computing wins.
Because you have control of
every electromagnetic system
that has an entry point
through a data point.
>> NOORY: Has somebody
already gotten there first?
>>BEGICH: Maybe.
Some have said
that our government
has reached that stage.
I don't know that we have.
But we're close.
Now, when you consider
the kinds of experiments
that are going on,
monitoring the brain activity
requires huge computing power.
This will allow it
so that you could
take those complex signals
and then generate signals just
like them and push them
into a specific individual.
This is where DARPA
has spent money
doing work for our
government researching
these very things for the
idea of training people.
So you get your training
and download of a language--
just right out of
science fiction,
where you can go and get
that kind of direct feed
into the brain.
That's what they're working on.
That's what the objective is.
That's the goal.
At the same time to
take your adversaries
and disrupt their
mental processes,
they can't even
operate the equipment
that they're responsible
for-- this is where
the sinister side pops out.
Because you can
rationalize it in one way,
but think about teaching your
kids in 30 years from now
as this technology moves down.
So you go to school, and instead
of getting a lesson that you
interact with, you get a feed.
Who controls that curriculum?
Who decides what goes
into your kid's head?
>> NOORY: Right.
Or when you go to sleep,
they just feed it to you.
>>BEGICH: Or what about being
able to wipe out a memory
or give you a new one?
Which is the work of the
electromagnetic directorate
of the Air Force in
a publication called
"Technology Rises."
>> NOORY: Wipe out total memory.
>>BEGICH: Yeah.
Take a memory out
and put a new one in.
>> NOORY: Because
we are only memory.
>>BEGICH: Right.
>> NOORY: Let's face it. if I
wake up in the morning and I
think I'm Nick Begich
and somebody has fed that
into my brain, that's who I am.
>>BEGICH: Yeah.
But think about it
from the standpoint
of evidence in a trial.
Did you see that?
Well, yeah, I saw that.
You'll swear to it.
This changes everything
about everything.
This is why it is so important
to look at these technologies
now while they're still-- I
wouldn't say in their infancy,
but they're in their
teenage years, OK?
They're a little
reckless. [CHUCKLES]
>> NOORY: It's kind
of frightening, Nick.
>>BEGICH: And it is.
>> NOORY: It's kind
of frightening.
>>BEGICH: It is frightening.
And at the same
time, the awareness
of it, the fact that it's
happening, become aware of it,
look at the technologies,
become more critical of them.
But the key element is
look at those things that
enhance your own
performance, that you can do,
the simple things you can
do To dissipate anxiety,
to dissipate fear so that you
can function at your highest
level.
And then look for those
technologies that enhance that,
because they're out there.
There's light and
sound device that
can be used for enhancing
meditation, enhancing sleep,
concentration, super learning.
There's lots of
technologies that
are designed to do that so that
you can reach a better state
and then continue to
evolve [INAUDIBLE].
>> NOORY: Well, let's
look at some of the neuro-
and biofeedback with
this kind of technology.
>> --And neurofeedback refer
to technology which enables us
to literally see what the
body is doing in real time.
It's like having a
mirror in which we
can see the
physiological signals
of the mind-body system.
And this enables us
to notice and learn
how to gain control over our
physiological state, our stress
levels, attention,
and performance.
>> NOORY: I love
this technology.
>>BEGICH: Biofeedback is great.
And they're using it in
a lot of different ways.
ADD, Attention Deficit Disorder,
they're using biofeedback.
>> NOORY: So it does help a lot
in applications, doesn't it?
>>BEGICH: It is so good
for so many things.
I mean, with young kids
and learning disabilities
where we're
medicating them, they
have found that if
they can take a child
in 30 to 45 one-hour sessions
with neurobiofeedback,
where they have an
interaction with a machine,
so they can get a
bouncing ball or some kind
of a visual effect,
and they learn
how to do that, within
30 to 45 sessions
they don't need
the device anymore.
They don't need the coaching.
>> NOORY: They're
doing it on their own.
>>BEGICH: They've learned
how to do it on their own,
something that most of
us can't even do at will,
get right into
that learning zone.
Well, they can do it.
And they don't need
medications anymore.
They don't have things
that are destroying
the kidneys in the liver.
They're free of it.
And they're absolutely in
control of their own brain
function.
>> NOORY: I've seen a
little kid, two years old,
playing a video game on a
smartphone that I can't even
do.
How do they do this?
Their brains are
conditioned, aren't they?
>>BEGICH: Well, and they're
younger and younger.
What's happening with
younger children is
they're getting
exposed technologies,
and they become
almost-- I mean, it's
as natural as riding
a bicycle after riding
it a couple of time.
>> NOORY: It's amazing.
You watch a little two-year-old
just doing their thing.
>>BEGICH: It's
amazing to me, too.
And when you look
at the technologies,
again, in terms of
where we're headed,
the technologies are used
to damage human beings
by military planners
for obvious purposes.
That is their mission.
But the same basic
mechanisms that they discover
about human physiology and about
how the system actually works
are so valuable in the other
areas, the healing arts,
that this is where we're
losing some of that dimension.
Because a lot of things
become classified,
you wait years, maybe
decades, before they finally
get released and
you can use them,
particularly in this area.
Electromedicine, the idea of
using electromagnetic fields
for effecting
health, is something
we're seeing exploding
all over the world,
more so now than ever before.
But I can go back to
the mid '80s, even,
and talk about technologies I
saw operating in Europe that
were quite amazing in this
area of electromedicine.
What we saw in the earlier
clip about the little--
>> NOORY: Robot,
whatever it was.
>>BEGICH: --probe, swallow
it, and it analyzes
and can dispense
medications and has cameras
and-- these are the 21st
century technologies
that we can expect to see.
And hopefully some
of these actually
drive costs down and
get visibility up
and actually head towards
curative scenarios rather than
maintenance of
symptoms scenarios
that we've seen in the
pharmaceutical direction
that we've gone.
>> NOORY: Well, if it works,
it's going to work well.
But if it doesn't
or if it's abused,
it could really backfire.
>>BEGICH: And this is it.
Like all things, I
mean, an airplane
can deliver your mail or a bomb.
Depends on the operator.
>> NOORY: Good point.
Some questions for you have
been e-mailed in, Nick.
Benny from Salt Lake
City, how do you
feel about our government's
use of this kind of technology?
>>BEGICH: Well, I mean,
at this point it's misuse,
is probably the better phrase.
And I consider this
the most invasive area
of government
interference of anything
that we've ever
imagined, the idea
of affecting people's
free will, affecting
people's consciousness
is something
that most religious traditions
say God won't even do,
but governments think
they have a right to.
This needs to be eliminated
from the thinking
of military planners.
This is no longer and
should not be an option.
This should be a non-option.
>> NOORY: In a perfect
world, it should be.
>>BEGICH: Just like
blinding lasers
were decided to be a
non-option, just like using gas
in a battlefield.
And fortunately, most
times it's not used.
These are the kinds of
restrictions I'm talking about,
where at least
most of the time we
have some sort of regulation.
And I would say along with
that the penalties for misuse
ought to be hard and
severe, and there
ought to be no exemptions.
>> NOORY: I agree.
>>BEGICH: Because that's
where-- you cross that line,
you're crossing a line
that God won't cross.
There needs to be a penalty, and
people need to understand it.
>> NOORY: Good point.
Shannon from
Louisville, Kentucky,
do you think there is a big
controversy going on regarding
this kind of technology?
Obviously yes.
>>BEGICH: Obviously yes.
And I think more so
now than ever before.
We were able to take this in in
the late '90s in the European
Parliament when we were
dealing with the HAARP issue.
And we got one line in
their military disarmament
and their biggest
resolution they ever passed
on military, multi-page thing.
It had five or six paragraphs.
And one was on the
manipulation of the human mind.
And the declaration
basically said, look,
we need treaty dialogue,
and we need to pursue this.
And they did through
the science directorate
of the European Parliament.
They looked into some of this.
And there is dialogue going
on at pretty high levels,
just from what
I'm familiar with.
And I know internally
in organizations,
there's a lot of debate about
what's right, what's wrong.
Unfortunately,
national security tends
to trump a lot of
times judgments
that other people might
make a little differently.
I mean, we see it
in our country.
We see torture, kidnapping,
extortion, blackmail.
That's our government
in operation, right?
Where do we draw the lines?
And I think that's where people
are increasingly concerned
about this area of technology.
>> NOORY: Well, let's
hope it's never abused.
But it will be.
>>BEGICH: It will be abused.
It has been abused historically.
I don't think that will stop.
In fact, even the Navy protocol
on human experimentation
that was passed in 2006--
I have it on my website.
And it says right
in there, it takes
the Deputy Secretary of
the Navy to approve them,
but they still have
the right to approve--
and they say that
in these words--
mind control experiments.
>> NOORY: Nick, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>BEGICH: Thanks for having me.
>> NOORY: It's called
"Controlling the Human Mind."
It's been going on for years.
And more and more of
this is going to happen.
But you need to be aware of it
so you can fight back and not
let it happen to you so when
you wake up in the morning,
you remember
exactly who you are.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]